Hi. Welcome to the Opportunities App. Opportunities is a new app for the Edovo platform that helps you view your potential release dates
and understand the definitions of different release types.
Before this app, the only way to see your release dates was to request a time comp sheet
or to wait to ask your COIII. And we know that can take days or even weeks, especially when staff
are busy. With Opportunities, that information is on your tablet anytime you want to check it.
The app shows release dates that you currently get through a time comp or by asking a COIII.
explanations of different release types, their requirements and conditions in plain language.
This application is for general and supplemental purposes only. It is not intended to be substituted
for the official record of this information. Now, let's demo the app.
This is what you'll see once you're in the portal. The general structure is a homepage
that shows your release dates, an about page that discusses what the Opportunities app is
and an explainer page with information about what the dates mean and links on the homepage
that take you to specific parts of that page. The first thing you'll see at the top of the
homepage is this light-gray banner. This banner shows the date the information was last changed.
You may also see this section that will only apply to a certain group of people.
This is a section that notes someone may be eligible for DPR. This will only be shown to
people who have drug possession or use charges and therefore could qualify for a 70% release
instead of an 85% one. If you click on the Learn More button in the DPR banner, you'll be taken to
a page titled "You may qualify for earlier release through Drug Program Release (DPR). What does that
mean?" The purpose of this page is to help people who only have those drug possession or use charges
understand how to qualify for DPR, mainly by emphasizing the need to complete a major program.
If we return to the homepage, you'll see a section called Your Important Dates.
This section is meant to explain some of the dates you'll see and where they come from.
We know sentence dates can be confusing. You might hear terms like ERCD or SED thrown around
and not be sure which one actually applies to you or what the difference is. We've heard people say
they've been given different answers by different people about what a date meant. That's exactly why
each date here comes with a plain English summary, so you're not left guessing or relying on second-
hand information from the yard. You may see several different possible release dates depending on your
sentence. Not everybody will have all of the possible dates. The app shows only the dates that
apply to you. You will see the sentence name, acronym, date, amount of time from the date,
and summary in plain English. If you click on the "Learn more about XYZ", you'll be taken to an
explainer page with information about what the date means. Each link directly corresponds to a
specific explanation on a larger about page. When you arrive on the explainer page, you will notice
two sections at the top. One titled My Release Dates, which provides explainer information for
the dates that are applicable to you, in addition to the All Release Types section that provides
information on all release types that are possible. The information for each date is organized around
common questions that you may have in order to understand how to qualify for that release type,
and what it would mean for you. When navigating across each section, you can tap on individual
questions to see their answers, or you can easily collapse or expand the information by clicking
on the Close All Content and Open All Content button in the top right corner of each section.
Ultimately, this app itself is designed to be very simple. Just three pages, one that shows
your dates and the demo video, an about page that provides information about what the Opportunities
app is, and another containing descriptions about those dates. It's similar to the information that
will be contained in a time comp sheet, but just always available through the tablet.
A few additional important notes. A banner at the top of your tablet screen will tell you when the
data has been last updated. The app refreshes every day, but you may not notice any changes
unless your release date has changed for some reason — for example, if you get a disciplinary
infraction and lose dates, or qualify for early release through a transition program.
One thing we heard during our pilot of this app is people said that being able to see their dates
regularly helped them stay focused on their goals. If you complete a transition program and qualify
for early release, you'll be able to see that change reflected here. And if you lose days from a
disciplinary infraction, you'll see that too. Some people told us that was actually a helpful
reminder of what's at stake. This tool will only live on your tablet. It will only show your own
information, not others'. It will not show information about your crime. This app uses the
real info from the time comp office. It doesn't make up its own dates. And if you have questions
about your sentence structure, you will need to speak with your COIII. If you have questions about
the app, here's who you should start by talking with. If you have questions about your sentence
structure, your COIII or time computation unit is the best answer. If you have questions about
your release dates, your COIII or time computation unit is the best answer. If you're having issues
with your tablet or lost your login information, mail and property are the best answer. Finally,
knowing your dates isn't just about counting down. People preparing for release use these dates to plan:
coordinating with family about housing, timing job searches, and signing up for the right programs
in the right order. The earlier you have a clear picture of your timeline, the more time you have
to prepare for a successful return home. Thank you.